# Evaluating COVID-19 in the DMV Area
## Overview
The state of public health worldwide was severely impacted beginning in late 2019 when cases of severe respiratory illness caused by a new type of coronavirus were reported in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province in China. The disease is now commonly referred to as COVID-19. By January 2020, the virus had spread beyond China's borders, and the number of COVID-19 cases began to rise worldwide. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a profound impact on lives across the globe, making practices such as social distancing and wearing face masks in public necessary at certain times. Due to the significance of COVID-19, it became critical to track various metrics of the pandemic at a global level, down to specific areas in countries, to best evaluate its progression.

The COVID Tracking Project, initiated by The Atlantic in early 2020, was one of the first major efforts to track various COVID-19 metrics, filling gaps left by the U.S. government's reporting. Examples of the metrics they reported included cases, deaths, and hospitalizations, with data available at both the national and state levels in the U.S. One area of particular focus was the DMV region, which includes Washington, D.C., Maryland, and Virginia. Data for these areas was reported from March 2020 through February 2021, covering the first full year of the pandemic in the U.S. This region is of significant importance, as it is centered around the nation's capital, playing a crucial role in the country, and its COVID-related metrics are of great importance.

This research evaluates key COVID-19 metrics in the DMV region from March 2020 through February 2021, including cases and deaths at both monthly and cumulative levels, as well as their ratios, such as cases and deaths per 100,000 people. Additionally, various summary statistics, such as the mean and median of the monthly levels for these metrics, were assessed. The findings from this analysis were presented through charts and tables to clearly display the results. These results provided valuable insights into the trends over the first year of the pandemic in the DMV area. For example, the analysis highlighted specific rises and declines in COVID-19 metrics throughout the first year of the pandemic, and the use of ratios helped facilitate comparisons across the three areas that make up the DMV, accounting for population differences.
## Files
This is the [R script](https://github.com/AlexZak135/DMV-COVID-19/blob/main/Code/DMV-COVID-19-Code.R) containing the code used for this analysis, and these are the [datasets](https://github.com/AlexZak135/DMV-COVID-19/tree/main/Data) used in the R script.
## Outputs
These are the [outputs](https://github.com/AlexZak135/DMV-COVID-19/tree/main/Outputs) that represent the main findings from the techniques used to analyze the data.
